.\"Created with GNOME Manpages Editor Wizard
.\"http://sourceforge.net/projects/gmanedit2
.TH bedup 8 "February 10, 2012" "" "bedup"

.SH NAME
bedup \- program for deduplication program with additional knowledge of burp

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bedup
.RI [ options ]
.br

.LP
A file deduplication program with additional knowledge of burp storage directories. This program comes with the burp backup and restore package.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fBpath\fR
Path to config file (default: /etc/burp/burp.conf).
.TP
\fB\-g\fR \fB<list of group names>\fR
Only run on the directories of clients that are in one of the groups specified. The list is comma-separated. To put a client in a group, use the 'dedup_group' option in the client configuration file on the server.
.TP
\fB\-h|-?\fR \fB\fR
Print help text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-d \fR \fB\fR
Delete any duplicate files found. (non-burp mode only, use with caution!)
.TP
\fB\-l \fR \fB\fR
Hard link any duplicate files found.
.TP
\fB\-m \fR \fB<number>\fR
Maximum number of hard links to a single file. (non-burp mode only - in burp mode, use the max_hardlinks option in the configuration file) The default is 10000. On ext3, the maximum number of links possible is 32000, but space is needed for the normal operation of burp.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fB<list of directories>\fR
Non-burp mode. Deduplicate any (set of) directories.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fB\fR
Print duplicate paths. Useful if you want to double check the files that would be hard linked or deleted before running with one of those options turned on.\fR
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fB\fR
Print version and exit.\fR
.TP
By default, bedup will read /etc/burp/burp.conf and deduplicate client storage directories using special knowledge of the structure.\fR
.TP
With '\-n', this knowledge is turned off and you have to specify the directories to deduplicate on the command line. Running with '\-n' is therefore dangerous if you are deduplicating burp storage directories.

.SH BUGS
If you find bugs, please report them to the email list. See the website
<http://burp.grke.net/> for details.

.SH AUTHOR
The main author of Burp is Graham Keeling.

.SH COPYRIGHT
See the LICENCE file included with the source distribution.
